Readme.md, before:

﻿# <img src="https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/RavenDB.Identity/nuget-icon.png?raw=true" width="50px" height="50px" /> RavenDB.Identity
The simple and easy Identity provider for RavenDB and ASP.NET Core. Use Raven to store your users and roles.

## Instructions ##

***Important:** Upgrading from a previous version of RavenDB.Identity? See <a href="#updating-from-old-version">Updating From Old Version</a> for steps to migrate to the latest RavenDB.Identity.*

1. Add an [AppUser class](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Models/AppUser.cs) that derives from Raven.Identity.IdentityUser:
```csharp
public class AppUser : Raven.Identity.IdentityUser
{
    /// <summary>
    /// A user's full name.
    /// </summary>
    public string FullName { get; set; }
}
```

2. In appsettings.json, configure your connection to Raven:

```json
"RavenSettings": {
    "Urls": [
        "http://live-test.ravendb.net"
    ],
    "DatabaseName": "Raven.Identity.Sample.RazorPages",
    "CertFilePath": "",
    "CertPassword": ""
},
```

3. In [Startup.cs](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Startup.cs), wire it all up:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Grab our RavenSettings object from appsettings.json.
    services.Configure<RavenSettings>(Configuration.GetSection("RavenSettings"));
    
    ...
    
    // Add RavenDB and identity.
    services
        .AddRavenDbDocStore() // Create an IDocumentStore singleton from the RavenSettings.
        .AddRavenDbAsyncSession() // Create a RavenDB IAsyncDocumentSession for each request. You're responsible for calling .SaveChanges after each request.
        .AddIdentity<AppUser, IdentityRole>() // Adds an identity system to ASP.NET Core
        .AddRavenDbIdentityStores<AppUser>(); // Use RavenDB as the store for identity users and roles.
    ...
}

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    ...
    // Instruct ASP.NET Core to use authentication and authorization.
    app.UseAuthentication();
    app.UseAuthorization();
    ...
}
```

4. In your controller actions, [call .SaveChangesAsync() when you're done making changes](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Filters/RavenSaveChangesAsyncFilter.cs#L35). Typically this is done via a [RavenController base class](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/Mvc/Controllers/RavenController.cs) for MVC/WebAPI projects or via a [page filter](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Filters/RavenSaveChangesAsyncFilter.cs) for Razor Pages projects.

## Modifying RavenDB conventions

Need to modify RavenDB conventions? You can use the `services.AddRavenDbDocStore(options)` overload:

```csharp
services.AddRavenDbDocStore(options =>
{
    // Maybe we want to change the identity parts separator.
    options.BeforeInitializeDocStore = docStore => docStore.Conventions.IdentityPartsSeparator = "-";
})
```

## <a id="updating-from-old-version">Updating From Old Version of RavenDB.Identity</a>

Using an old version of RavenDB.Identity and want to upgrade to the latest? You need to call the `MigrateToV6` method:

```csharp
// Update our existing users to the latest RavenDB.Identity v6.
// This is necessary only if you stored users with a previous version of RavenDB.Identity.
// Failure to call this method will result in existing users not being able to login.
// This method can take several minutes if you have thousands of users.
UserStore<AppUser>.MigrateToV6(docStore);
```

This upgrade step is necessary because we [updated RavenDB.Identity to use RavenDB's cluster-safe compare/exchange](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/issues/5) to enforce user name/email uniqueness. 

Previous versions of RavenDB.Identity had relied on `IdentityUserByUserName` IDs to enforce uniqueness, but this isn't guaranteed to work in a cluster. Calling MigrateToV6 will create compare/exchange values in Raven for each email address, and will remove the now-obsolete IdentityUserByUserNames collection.

## Getting Started and Sample Project

Need help? Checkout the [Razor Pages sample](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/tree/master/Samples/RazorPages) or [MVC sample](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/tree/master/Samples/Mvc) to see it all in action.

## Not using .NET Core?

See our [sister project](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.AspNet.Identity) for a RavenDB Identity Provider for the full .NET Framework.

Commit message:

Stable user ID documentation updates

Readme.md, after:

﻿# <img src="https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/RavenDB.Identity/nuget-icon.png?raw=true" width="50px" height="50px" /> RavenDB.Identity
The simple and easy Identity provider for RavenDB and ASP.NET Core. Use Raven to store your users and roles.

## Instructions ##

***Important:** Upgrading from a previous version of RavenDB.Identity? See <a href="#updating-from-old-version">Updating From Old Version</a> for steps to migrate to the latest RavenDB.Identity.*

1. Add an [AppUser class](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Models/AppUser.cs) that derives from Raven.Identity.IdentityUser:
```csharp
public class AppUser : Raven.Identity.IdentityUser
{
    /// <summary>
    /// A user's full name.
    /// </summary>
    public string FullName { get; set; }
}
```

2. In appsettings.json, configure your connection to Raven:

```json
"RavenSettings": {
    "Urls": [
        "http://live-test.ravendb.net"
    ],
    "DatabaseName": "Raven.Identity.Sample.RazorPages",
    "CertFilePath": "",
    "CertPassword": ""
},
```

3a. In [Startup.cs](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Startup.cs), wire it all up. Note that this approach will use the email address as part of the User Id, such that changing their email will change their User Id as well:

```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Grab our RavenSettings object from appsettings.json.
    services.Configure<RavenSettings>(Configuration.GetSection("RavenSettings"));
    
    ...
    
    // Add RavenDB and identity.
    services
        .AddRavenDbDocStore() // Create an IDocumentStore singleton from the RavenSettings.
        .AddRavenDbAsyncSession() // Create a RavenDB IAsyncDocumentSession for each request. You're responsible for calling .SaveChanges after each request.
        .AddIdentity<AppUser, IdentityRole>() // Adds an identity system to ASP.NET Core
        .AddRavenDbIdentityStores<AppUser>(); // Use RavenDB as the store for identity users and roles.
    ...
}

public void Configure(IApplicationBuilder app, IWebHostEnvironment env)
{
    ...
    // Instruct ASP.NET Core to use authentication and authorization.
    app.UseAuthentication();
    app.UseAuthorization();
    ...
}
```

3.a. If you want to be able to change the email address of a user without also changing their user id, enable `StableUserId` mode:
```csharp
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    // Everything else the same as above, just pass a configuration delegate to AddRavenDbIdentityStore(
    services
        .AddRavenDbDocStore() // Create an IDocumentStore singleton from the RavenSettings.
        .AddRavenDbAsyncSession() // Create a RavenDB IAsyncDocumentSession for each request. You're responsible for calling .SaveChanges after each request.
        .AddIdentity<AppUser, IdentityRole>() // Adds an identity system to ASP.NET Core
        .AddRavenDbIdentityStores<AppUser>(o => o.StableUserId = true); // Use RavenDB as the store for identity users and roles, in StableUserId mode.
    ...
}
```
Be aware that changing `StableUserId` mode on an existing database is not supported, and will likely result in data loss.

4. In your controller actions, [call .SaveChangesAsync() when you're done making changes](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Filters/RavenSaveChangesAsyncFilter.cs#L35). Typically this is done via a [RavenController base class](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/Mvc/Controllers/RavenController.cs) for MVC/WebAPI projects or via a [page filter](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/blob/master/Samples/RazorPages/Filters/RavenSaveChangesAsyncFilter.cs) for Razor Pages projects.

## Modifying RavenDB conventions

Need to modify RavenDB conventions? You can use the `services.AddRavenDbDocStore(options)` overload:

```csharp
services.AddRavenDbDocStore(options =>
{
    // Maybe we want to change the identity parts separator.
    options.BeforeInitializeDocStore = docStore => docStore.Conventions.IdentityPartsSeparator = "-";
})
```

## <a id="updating-from-old-version">Updating From Old Version of RavenDB.Identity</a>

Using an old version of RavenDB.Identity and want to upgrade to the latest? You need to call the `MigrateToV6` method:

```csharp
// Update our existing users to the latest RavenDB.Identity v6.
// This is necessary only if you stored users with a previous version of RavenDB.Identity.
// Failure to call this method will result in existing users not being able to login.
// This method can take several minutes if you have thousands of users.
UserStore<AppUser>.MigrateToV6(docStore);
```

This upgrade step is necessary because we [updated RavenDB.Identity to use RavenDB's cluster-safe compare/exchange](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/issues/5) to enforce user name/email uniqueness. 

Previous versions of RavenDB.Identity had relied on `IdentityUserByUserName` IDs to enforce uniqueness, but this isn't guaranteed to work in a cluster. Calling MigrateToV6 will create compare/exchange values in Raven for each email address, and will remove the now-obsolete IdentityUserByUserNames collection.

## Getting Started and Sample Project

Need help? Checkout the [Razor Pages sample](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/tree/master/Samples/RazorPages) or [MVC sample](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.Identity/tree/master/Samples/Mvc) to see it all in action.

## Stable User Id mode

By default RavenDB.Identity will use the email address of the user as part of their unique user Id, for example `Users/user@email.com`. This is great for readability while debugging, but if your application needs to allow the user to change their email address without losing their existing data it can be a real pain. The reason is that other documents will [likely have references](https://ravendb.net/docs/article-page/4.2/Csharp/client-api/how-to/handle-document-relationships) to the User Id, so if a user changes their email address but wants to keep the same account & data you would have to write code that updated those references. To help alleviate this pain you can use RavenDB.Identity in a different configuration where it will let RavenDB generate a unique ID for each user (eg: `Users/7-A`), which means their email can change without affecting their User Id and all references to the User document stay valid when their email address changes. *Be aware, changing StableUserId mode on a database with existing User documents is not supported, and will almost certainly result in loss of data.* If you think your application might ever need to support users changing their email address, it is recommended that you start your project using Stable User Id mode.

## Not using .NET Core?

See our [sister project](https://github.com/JudahGabriel/RavenDB.AspNet.Identity) for a RavenDB Identity Provider for the full .NET Framework.
